1. Summarise the applicant’s current role. Vivek works in Corporate Technology as senior associate. He owns end-to-end development, testing and deployment of AD(Automatic Differentiation) enablement of sensitivity and Greeks calculation in CPG Tech’s Gauss application. He works with QR to enable development and performance optimisation of asset pricers. This project aims to reduce the CBB core usage of Gauss by about 30-40% thereby reducing annual CBB cost in magnitude to ~1 Million dollar by mid of 2020. He is on path to become Gauss BPL distribution and multiprocessing SME. He also assist in uplifting legacy Gauss backtesting application to micro-service based component and make it cloud deployable. 
2. Provide an example of the applicants advanced knowledge in one or more technical domain. Vivek is a full stack developer. He excels in technology such as - Python, Java, Angular and React. He is expert in design patterns and reactive application architecture.   He is a polished machine/deep learning model developer. In 2018 he developed a deep learning model to predict breaches for Intraday Facility Clients for IFM (Intraday Facility Monitor - Application in Treasury and CIO) application. He presented the PoC to business and the results were very well received. He also presented machine learning and model building techniques to Bangalore CT senior leadership members and was very well received. He is also a Tableau SME for over 5 years. He fuels and accelerates software development, in his first year of joining the firm (Q4 2012) he helped his team get the best project delivery award. 
3. Provide examples of how the applicants aligns with the firms strategy and think proactively. Vivek always thinks about application upgrade using micro-service architecture. He is a propagator of the ideas of sharable APIs. He aims to modernise application by small self-sufficient, fast moving components which can be managed at ease using templates like Jules, IDAnywhere, Splunk and Service-now that speeds up delivery and quality of the software. He always thinks about automating manual works. In 2015 he created a tableau deployment tool using python that automated tableau deployment for Oracle and Exadata DataSources and saved operates multiple man hours of manual deployment and saved firm ~100K $ on tableau desktop license cost. 
4. Provide examples of how the applicant collaborates across teams and with stakeholders. Vivek is the single point of contact for QR’s for all AD(Automatic Differentiation) delivery in Gauss. Having solid understanding of mathematical foundation behind risk-modelling, he is very comfortable in discussing exposure calculation and pricing details with QR. He enables QRs to roll out trade pricers for AD seamlessly and created APIs that can help setup test environment in minutes which was otherwise brute-force, manual and chronically error prone. 
5. Provide examples of how the applicant makes continuous learning and skill building a priority. With Beijing AD team shutdown, Vivek has taken over Gauss BPL multiprocessing and distribution and strive to become hands-on SME of a complex subject. Having worked in various roles he brings wealth of advanced technical expertise. Vivek was the first person to start Tableau in Bangalore and in CT. He became Tableau SME in no time and implemented complex yet super performant big data  powered dashboard.  
6. Provide examples of the applicant contributing to the success of others (coaching, giving feedback etc) Vivek has trained over 200+ people on Tableau via India Technology Training classroom program. Vivek has mentored interns from IIT in CPG Gauss application in 2019 to assist the decommission of Gauss Portal. He trained the inters to build cloud based micro-service and react based front end protected by ID Anywhere. This initiative helps in breaking Gauss monolith into manageable, stateless component.  Vivek has been a Tech Lead of Force For Good in 2013, 2015 and 2017. He led team of SEPs fresh out of collage to learn the art of building and deploying scalable application. He also assisted SEPs to understand the art of stakeholder management (NGO partners in this case). Mentor Mentee matching platform build in 2015 was one the best works from Bangalore was he was selected to present the project to Dana Deasy, in 2016. Reaching Hand’s inventory management, was the best FFG project for 2017 and had cool features like chatbot integration, on web-browser machine learning to estimate inventory utilisation in future using Tensor flow JS. 
7. What development opportunity should the program address for the applicant.  
8. How do you expect the applicant to have a greater impact on the organisation after they complete the program? Vivek will help build Fast-moving developer driven organisation full of brilliant and ambitious people. E2 program will help him improve on strategic thinking and on technology leadership skills. This will enable him to manage programs from ITC in future, which is inline with his career objective. 
9. Is there anything you would  like to share about the applicant? Vivek has always gone beyond his expectation in all his roles. With his solid understanding and background in probability theory, random process, statistics and optimisation techniques, he will be pivotal in architecting next generation of smart analytical software solutions.
